Haan (1995) "The term structure of interest rates in real and monetary
economies"

Haan examines the major statistical properties of key interest rates, nominal
and real, and key macroeconomic variables. In the model, with positively
autocorrelated consumption, the term structure will be downward sloping
(919-920). In order to get positive slope of term structure and higher variance
of longer term bond i-rates, need persistent expected growth rates of
consumption and a negative autocorrelation for consumption growth, accomplished
through a particular specification of the consumption shock process. But, these
features are not present in U.S data (923). Adding labor supply and real money
balances do not increase the ability of the model to match U.S data.

Donaldson, Johnsen, and Mehra (1990) "On the term structure of interest rates"

Create definition of "internal consistency", whereby 'market' and risk-free
rates are entirely determined endogenously within the model, making them
consistent with each other. Not sure if affine models of term structure (TS)
fit this definition. Has nice summary of important TS literature (573). C:
Cites paper by Stambaugh that says upward sloping precede recoveries and
vis-versa (577). Simple model is incapable of explaining the real term
structure quantitatively (583). Standard deviation of YTM is seen to decline
with maturity (585). The longer the forecast period, the larger the forward
premium and the longer the maturity of the interest rate forecasted, the
smaller the forward premium (588).

Campbell and Cochrane (1999) "By Force of Habit: A Consumption-Based
Explanation of Aggregate Stock Market Behavior"

References Cox, Ingersoll, and Ross (1985) for square root models of the term
structure. Choose meaningful parameters and simulate consumption based model
and examine properties compared to post-war relationships between stock-returns
and the path of consumption. Model has "leverage effect", where price declines
increase volatility, and counter-cycical variation in volatility (222). They
discuss the equity premium puzzle in the context of their model (237). Agents
fear stocks not because they are correlated with declines in wealth or
consumption, but because they do badly in recessions (deviations of consumption
from habit).

Check these out for real wage bargaining ridities.

Jessica Wachter, 2006. A consumption-based model of the term structure of
interest rates.

Build on consumption based model of Campbell and Cochrane. Allows for moving
risk-free rate, unlike C and C. The precautionary savings rate does
automatically cancel out the inter-temporal smoothing effect. In order to get
upward sloping yield curve, need real riskfree rate to be negatively correlated
with consumption (15). Check out Gregory Duffee's webpage!! The model can fit
the equity premium puzzle of Mehra and Prescott (17). Reference other affine
models of the term structure (22). Interesting test for the models fit to
actual term premia (24).

Blanchard and Gali, 2005. Real wage rigidities and new keynesian model.

New Keynesian DSGE with real wage rigidities. Natural - welfare optimal output
not constant as in standard New Keynesian model. Examines alternative waves of
introducing inconsistencies between natural output and welfare optimal output.
Real wage rigidities lead to inflation intertia. Also generates endogenous
representation of current inflation has function of lagged and expected
inflation.

Cochrane, 2007. Financial Markets and the Real Economy.

Aims to get at the determinants of all asset prices as representing the
marginal value of wealth, connecting to the marginal consumption as driven by
macroeconomic variables. "Asset markets are the mechanism that does all of the
equating" (242). Makes interesting link between portfolio models and macro
models of asset prices: portfolio models link asset prices to a few sources of
movement and then macro models try to understand how underlying movement is
priced (244). Many variables can be used to forecast returns (245). The term
spread forecasts stock returns as much as it forecasts bond returns (248).
There are a number of specific macroeconomic variables that can forecast stock
returns (249). Investigates the Fama-French three factor model (253-254). Notes
Fama-French's leaving out momentum effect, but keeping sml (small market
capitaliziation minus big) and hml (high book-to-market ratio minus low). Also
discussses Mehra-Prescott puzzle as not originally discovered by M and P but
instead of Shiller (262). Discusses different options for utility functions
(271). Nice explanation of moving habit (276). Recurring theme in consumption
models with external, moving habit: people fear stocks because they decline
when consumption falls relative to habit (277). Mentions interesting housing
model of Piazzesi, Schneider, and Tuzel (2004) (279). Non-separability across
states induces non-separability across goods (285). Addresses consumption
factor models (286). Time series relating investment to stock prices (291).
Production models of investment, requires state-separable production functions
(293). Germann's' GE model of stock prices (294). Boldrin, Eichenbaum, and
Fisher (2001) improve fit model's quantity dynamics (295). Tallerini shows that
with separate risk aversion and intertemporal subsitution parameters, you can
get equity premium wihtout changing quantity dunamics (296). Seems like he is
describing bubbles with intangible capital (298). GE models force us to stop
treating tomorrow's price as an exogenous variable (301). Labor income% total
income as returns forecaster (307). Cross-sectional idiosyncraic risk can be
important factor (308). Should aggregates be used over micro data? (313).


Boldrin, Christiano, and Fisher, 2001. Habit Persistence, Asset Returns, and
the Business Cycle.

Two failures of GE models: equity premium is too high and risk-free rate is too
low on average (149). Introducing habit preference into the standard RBC model
has no impact on the equity premium (150). Two sector model with intersectoral
rigidities (151). Does better than RBC model in predicting mean risk-free rate,
equity premium, and Sharpe ratio (154). Risk-free rate volatility not well
predicted (154). Variations in b (weight on previous consumption) have impact
on equity return volatility through capital factor market inflexibilities
(155). Sectors move together (156). Model also lowers estimate of risk-free
rate impact on consumption (in line with data) and increases predictability of
income to consumption (159). Interest rate increase also predicts lower future
output (160). Superior to time-to-plan model in rational justification and
consumption volatility (161-162). Adjustment-costs model understates equity
premium and if adjusted for, employment is countercyclical(162). Looking for
data to show that consumption response is smooth (163). Higher correlation
between consumption growth and rate of return on equity than in data (163).
Model with inclusion of inventories could have smoothing effect (164).

Mehra and Prescott, 1985. The Equity Premium: A Puzzle.

Use standard Lucas consumption model to examine lack of empirically supported
low equity premium. Consumption follows Markov process (154). "Realistic" risk
aversion parameters are not line with data. Equity premium too low relative to
actual equity premium in data. Actual stock may be riskier than those available
in this model, but this correction doesn't help much (159). Lack of copmlete
competition in financial markets may be reason for model's poor performance in
generating the equity premium (159).

Piazzesi and Schneider, 2006. Equilibrium yield curves.

Studies the effect of inflation as bad news in a simple representative agent
asset pricing model with recursive utility as investor preferences and
different specifications of investors' beliefs of how consumption and inflation
evolve over time (389-390). In the "standard" model, asset premium's exist over
other assets when they covary more with consumption growth (390). In stochastic
model, inflation itself is the key predictor of future consumption, inflation,
and yields that generates interest rate volatility (391). Exogenous consumption
and inflation in baseline model (393). Lots of background work on Epstein and
Zin preferences (393). Nice explanation of the meaning of the risk aversion
parameter (394-395). Explicit risk premium derived in model (400). Real term
premia are driven by covariance of marginal utility with expected consumption
growth (401). Use a state-space system to summarize investors beliefs about
fundamentals (402). High inflation is a leading recession indicator (404).
Conditional and unconditional results of growth and inflation shocks result in
very different results (404-405). Use differing results of growth and inflation
shocks to generate explanations of what shocks actually took place in history
(405-406). Match average short and long end of yield curve with \beta and
\gamma: \beta = 1.00 and \gamma = 59 (406). Generates upward sloping yield
curve (406). Recursive utility generates upward sloping yield curve while
expected utility generates downward sloping (408). If long-term bond yields are
correlated with good times then they require premium (410). Real YC downward
sloping in UK, but using TIPS in US is upward sloping (410-411). Volatility
puzzle still exists, where long-term bond yields are not volatile enough in
model (412). Model's expectations move too quickly as shown in drop in
inflation in data with slow data reaction by short rate but quick reaction in
model (413). Add more variables into state space system and see if it adds
important information to investor expectation, but it doesn't seem to (415).
Plus, with more info need higher \gamma to generate long-term high yields
(416). Re-estimate model with data only available up to time \t at each time
\t, given people's lack of knowledge about future model parameters (421-422).
Impact of inflation or growth surprises has different degree of impact
depending on period (423). Inflation as an indicator of bad times became worse
in 70s (424). Use Bayesian learning to generate parameter uncertainty (425).
Parameter uncertainty can generate the sluggish response of yields (429).
Excess sensitivity of long-rates to news (Gurknayek, Sack, and Swanson (2005))
(430). Bond premium puzzle (Backus, Gregory, and Zin (1989)) (431). Abel's
"catching up with the Joneses" model (432). Adaptive learning literature
summarized by Evans and Honkapohja (2001) (434). Two tasks for research: 1)
understand better the source of yield volatility at business cycle frequencies
and 2) develop further models in which changes in uncertainty have first order
effects on interest rates (436). Comments by Benigno, Campbell, and overall
discussion.

Ravenna and Seppaelae, 2006. Monetary Policy and the Term Structure of Interest
Rates.

RBC, sticky price and liquidy effect models unable to generate pro-cyclical
i-rates and counter-cyclical term spread (2). In Donaldson, Johnson, and Mehra
(DJM) (1990), at peak, agents save more because lower output expected so
i-rates are lower and vice versa (3). But DJM compare real i-rates to nominal
(3). (Piazzesi and Schneider compare nominal to nominal andg have very
different results for real and nominal yield curves). Backus, Gregory, and Zin
(BGZ) show that standard asset pricing model unable to generate sign or
magnitude of average risk premiums in forward prices and holding period
treturns (4). Related literature (4-5). Set-up New Keynesian DSGE model with
Taylor rule with differentiated consumers and firms and an option of assets to
choose from with different maturities (6-11). Solve using third order
regression, not direct approximation with Swanson (11) (This could be a place
for research). Do not use any weight on output gap in standard specification
(12). Shocks to preferences, technology, and taylor rule (13). A little
confused about specification of forward price (15). Procyclical real and
nominal interest rates in data (15). In data, short maturities are procycical
and long maturities counter-cycical (15). Convexity premium (16). Habit
formation is a necessary condition for the expectations hypothesis to fail
(18), but monetary policy also plays an important role (18). Expectations
hypothesis is rejected and with different tests (20). Explanatory power of term
structure slop increases with forecast horizon (21). Introduced "inflation risk
premium" (22). Inflation risk premium is negative always in model (more
negative means lower long-term bond price -> higher yields) (22). WIth more
aggresive monetary policy smaller (absolute value) inflation premium (23).
Expecatations hypothesis is rejected more often with more aggressive monetary
policy (27).

Wu, 2005. Macro Factors and the Affine Term Structure of Interest Rates.

Use 7 variable VAR with R_t last in order to generate stylized facts (3-4).
Various measurements of R_t used with yields on bonds of different maturity and
"slope" and "level" of term structure. Realistic shock responses except for
Sim's "price puzzle" in VAR (4). VAR with different R_t shows that effect on
R_t of increase in federal funds rate decreases with maturity and trails off
quicker with maturity (5). Magnitude of output shock to relatively equal across
maturities (5). Standard NK model with sticky prices (through price adjustment
costs) and capital adjustment costs (6). Monetary policy different from Taylor
rule in that 1) includes lagged short-rate and 2) output gap measured in
perceived rather than actual flexible price output (10). Use affine model to
define movements in all variables where both dynamics of state variables and
those of term structure are endogenously derived from a rational expectations
general equilibrium (14). Most of the literature views term structure movement
as controlled by some unobservable latent factors (14). Wu's approach limits
the pricing kernal to be conditional homo-skedastic. (15). Calibrated model has
monetary policy shock decreases inflation significantly, but effect is
transitory (17). Risk premium lowers in model with contractionary monetary
shock because yield on this asset goes up in bad times (18). Monetary policy
shock in model has much larger effect on short-rates than long-, but tech shock
has more uniform effect on all i-rates, so monetary shock could be "slope"
factor and tech shock could be "level" factor. Monetary shocks are also much
more transient than tech shocks. In less than two years, most of the monetary
shock has subsided in term structure, while most of tech shock remains 2 years
(24 periods) in (20). Results are backed with variance decomposition (model vs.
VAR) (21). Also perform time-series regressions on IRF from model (22).
Rudebusch and Wu attribute "slope" effect to cyclical Fed responses, but
"level" to time-varying inflation target, so actually not that different (23).
Future avenues for research, including incorporating financial frictions and
justifying affine models of term structure theoretically (24).

Bekaert, Cho, and Moreno, 2005. New-Keynesian Macroeconomics and the Term
Structure.

Most NK models limit information set available to monetary authority and
private sector, but his paper uses term structure which efficiently summarizes
a lot of information (1). Term structure (TS) helps to recover structural
parameter, so can estimate using GMM (2). Generates more persistence than most
NK models through additional observable variables (2). Model set-up (5). Employ
different monetary policy specifications (8-9). Also use two different
inflation target specifications (10-11). Rewrite system as first-order VAR with
"0" restrictions and two unobserved macro factors (12). Homo-skedastic affine
model implies constant risk premium, while Gaussian prices of risk and square
root model imply time-varying risk premiums (13). Inflation risk premium
determined by (time-varying) covariance between inflation and the real pricing
kernel (13). The macro variables and the term spreads follow a first-order VAR
with complex cross-equation restrictions (16). Baseline VAR evidence seems to
indicate that macro variables show more causality for term spreads but less so
for term spreads causing macro variables (17). Including term spreads in VAR
decrease optimal lags from 3 to 1, so including this may provide the
persistence needed without extra lags (19). Cool method for determining how
different model specifications match up with data (22). Inflation difficult to
fit, output gap also hard, interest rate dynamics easier to fit and certain
models do well with term spread. The constant real rate, expected inflation,
new inflation specification had the best overall fit and is the focus of the
rest of the paper (22). While the signs of the coefficients don't always match
up, the joint dynamics seem to match the unconstrained VAR(1) system well (23).
Tables at end have nice summary for specifications perform nicely when (24).
The Phillips curve parameter is significant, which differs from previous
studies (25). The utility curvature parameter is never higher than 5, in line
with Lucas (2003) (26). Model implied output gap, natural rate of output and
inflation target seems to coincide well with historical intuition (29-30).
Difference between supply and demand shock (30-31). Dai and Singleton (2000)
investigate different numbers of unobserved variables (34). One year yield fits
data much better than 10 year yield (35). Inflation target shock has big effect
on yield curve "level" (37). Monetary policy shock is dominant factor in slope
and curvature of yield curve (37). Other authors have to use more lags to
explain persistence (39).

Doh, 2007. What Moves the Yield Curve? Lessons from an Estimated Non-Linear
Macro Model.

Uses closed form solution for bond yields, which differs from most NK DSGE
papers where log-linearizing to second order cannot generate time-varying term
premium (1). Findings are that inflation too high or term premium too low when
trying to match to the data (2). Model doesn't generate high enough term
premium, but the parameter estimates of high persistence in Hoerdahl (2005) and
Ravana and Sepaellae (2006) are not realistic given the data, as Doh will show
(3). Model (4). Quadratic price adjustment costs (5). Complete asset markets of
state contingent claims (6). Condense model into control variable/state
variable system which is assumed stable so that it can be solved (9). Discuss
how exactly linear approximation differs from quadratic approximation (11).
Discusses matching model outcomes to data, specifically, GDP, inflation, and
the interest rate (27). They compute the conditional expectations of the
discount factor (through which bond yields are generated) by derivation of
approximate stochastic discount factor, rather than estimating the conditional
expectations (12-13). Discuss issues with iterating forward estimations of
discount factor (13). Use Bayesian methods with particle filtering to estimate
the model (14). Summarize entire system in state-space model (15). Before
taking the model to the data, investigate how model does in generating Den
Haan's (1995) stylized facts (20). RBC model generates negative term
premiums(21). Empirical proxies of "level", "slope", and "curvature" generated
from model are highly correlated with three latent factors generated by
principal component analysis (23). Test linear model, non-linear model without
ARCH effect and non-linear model with ARCH effect (23). All of the models do
not generate a flat shape of the term structure of volatility (23). Inflation
is too volatile in all three models (24). Non-linear model much better
identifies posterior regions of persistence parameters (25). In overall
time-series fit, the non-linear model is marginally better than the linear
model (27). Posterior analysis shows that mean slope and mean curvature of the
yield curve do not match the data, but the magnitude of ex-post measurement
errors are small compared to other results in the literature (28). In order to
get at meaning of term structure factors, instead of regressing latent term
structure values on DSGE generated model shocks, Doh regresses actual empirical
estimates of these term structure factors on the model shocks (29). Analysis
associates "level" with target inflation, "slope" with the mark-up, and
"curvature" with the transitory monetary shock (30). Other papers link "slope"
with capacity utilization (this could integrate PK lit) (30). Monetary policy
reaction to real disturbances is found to be singificantly positive during our
sample period (31). Increases in target inflation are most persistent in their
effect on interest rates, while markup is less so, and transitory monetary
policy even less (32). Show that implied term premium is highly correlated with
macro factors, unlike Duffee (2006) (32). Model cannot explain magnitude of TP,
but when average values of term premium structure variables are taken jout as
free parameters, model captures time variation in TP well (33).

Hoerdahl, Tristani, and Vestin, 2007. The Yield Curve and Macroeconomic
Dynamics.

Demonstrate that market prices of risk are smaller(!) in a plain-vanilla model
with nominal rigidities than in corresponding flexible price model. Flexible
prices help by giving monetary policy a real impact and additional help with
inflation indexation added (3). Four important stylzed facts, upward sloping
yield curve in data, slightly downward sloping yield volatilities, highly
persistenct yields, and realised excess holding period returns tends to
increase with maturity (5). Model (7). Utility with habit persistence (7).
Complete portfolio of state contingent assets available (7). Production
function with only labor (8). Calvo contracts with inflation indexation among
firms not changing prices (8). Taylor rule with interest rate indexing to
previous period's rate (10). Solve the model using second-order approximation
of nonlinear relationships linking logs of endogenous variables to logs of
predetermined variables (11). Nominal stochastic discount factor is completely
determined by (change in) marginal utility of consumption and inflation
(11-12). The determinants of bond prices can they be directly decomposed
(12-13). Focus on the difference between holding a bond of maturity $n$ for
3 months and the three month rate as a measurement of the term premium because
the time period is the same (14). Experiment with different values of risk
vaersion but only report on \gamma=6 (15). Two shocks, tech and mon policy,
make model broady consistent with the empriical results (16). Show the
importance of non-zero values for certain parameters, conclude that all
features of the model are important (16). Price stickiness alone does not
generate vast improvement in model fit (16). Standard deviation of bond yields
is broadly in line with data and while excess holding returns are smaller, they
generally follow the same pattern (17). For Backus, Gregory, and Zin (1989)
puzzle of needed highly autocorrelated consumtpion shocks (19-20). Simple RBC
model cannot generate excess holding period returns and the variance of yields
at the same time (21-22). Habit formation in RBC model can solve BGZ puzzle
(23-24). Need extremely high persistence of shocks to generate high long-term
bond yield volatility relative to short-rate (25). Improved performance of
variance of yields leads to worse performance in expected ytm (26).
Differentiates between the nominal price of risk and the real price of risk
(28). Show that the market price of technology risk is always lower in
a sticky-price equilibrium than in a flex price equilbrium (29). Show that both
habit persistence and sticky prices matter for significant term premium (31).
Excess holding period returns are dominated by real premium component rather
than inflation premium component (34). This is supported by TIPS data
referenced from a Roll (2004) paper (35). Model is silent in time variation of
risk premia (36).

Jermann, 1998. Asset Pricing in Production Economies.

Tries to answer question: "What version of RBC model can reproduce business
cycle fluctuations and asset market facts?" (257). Difficult to explain both
consumption and asset prices because increase in risk aversion parameter leads
to consumption smoothing (258). Habit formation and capital adjustment costs
required for replication of business cycle frequencies and equity premium
(258). Model (259). Capital adjustment costs (260). Use two utility
specifications with and without habit (260). Use loglinear-lognormal approach
(261). Use a priori knowledge to value all parameters except for those
governing habit persistence, capital adjustment costs, time discount factor and
shock persistence, which are estimated by matching the moments (264). In
addition to habit persistence and capital adjustment costs, there is also shock
persistence (264). Model with both habit persistence and capital adjustment
costs fits the data best for relative consumption/output volatility and equity
premium (265). The equity premium in the model can be divided into "payment
uncertainty premium" and "term premium" (267). Adding in capital adjustment
costs to habit formation makes equity premium much larger than bond premium
rather than bond premium larger than equity premium in habit formation model
with no capital adjustment costs (269). Standard deviation of i-rate is too
high (269). Add simplistic leverage into the model which increases equity
premium (271). Risk premia for long-term bonds are too high relative to equity
premium in the model (272).

Gallmeyer, Hollifield, and Zin, 2005. Taylor Rules, McCallum Rules and the Term
Structure of Interest Rates.

McCallum (1994) investigation into failure of expecatations hypothesis with
short-rate vs. term structure (921). McCallum showed that by augmenting the
expectations model with a monetary policy rule where the i-rate is sensitive to
the slope of the yield curve, the model is able to match empirical facts more
closely (923). "McCallum rule" (923). Ang and Piazzessi (2003) show that
imposing no-arbitrage conditions in an empirical macro model can fit the data
better than a model with unobserved/laten factor variables alone (923). Is
a Taylor rule, responding to inflation and fundamentals equivalent to MacCullum
rule responding to the term structure (924). Restate McCallum (1994) rule
derviation (925). Quick derivation of yield to price relation (!!) (925). Exact
McCallum rule (926). McCallum rule can account for Fama-Bliss empirical finding
(927). McCallum's risk premium is exogenous, so models following his have tried
to explain the risk premium (927). Use two separate models to examine
theoretical underpinnings of McCallum's model: 1) Backus et. al (2001) with
stochastic volatility of state variables and 2) Duffee (2002) which allows for
state dependent "price of risk". Backus model (actually Duffie and Kan (1996),
derive affine parameters A(n) and B(n) in terms of model parameters (929).
Derive McCallum rule as a set of restrictions on the values of the parameters
in the re-arranged state variables in the first order VAR (930). Stochastic
volatility model (931). In stochastic model, state-dependent risk premium comes
from state-dependent conditional variance of the state variables and the
pricing kernal (933). In the stochastic volatility model, the risk-premium
solves to an AR(1) process, just as in McCallum's specification (933). Also
have stochastic "price-of-risk" model, where the price of risk itself is
a function of the state variables. This is the method more akin to Bernanke and
Ang and Piazzesi (2003) (934). Use NK model ala Clarida et. al (1999) to give
structural relationships to state variables (936). First model is with
stochastic volatility, so state variables derived are a three variable system
made up of the change in the natural level of output, a state variable that can
help predict the conditional volatility of the cost-push shock, and the
cost-push shock (937). Monetary policy implied by this NK model leads to output
gap and inflation being perfectly correlated, meaning a Taylor rule with only
one factor (939). In this first model with stochastic volatility, interest rate
risk premium depends on linear policy goal (939). Second macro NK model as
time-varying price of risk (940). State vector in second model with stochastic
price of risk is four variables, the same as the three previously mentioned,
and also the previous period cost-push shock (941). In this model, the
time-variation in the risk premium depends on the current growth rate in the
natural level of output, the current and lagged level of the cost-push shock
and the current value of the exogenous variable (943). One can re-write the
interest rate response in the stochastic volatility model to a Taylor rule that
is a function of expected inflation and expected natural output (943). One can
do the same thing in the time-varying price of risk model, except Taylor rule
also includes lagged inflation (944). The relationship between McCallum rule
and the structural parameters was already laid out, so there is some connection
(945). Connection is examined numerically (945). They estimate Taylor rules and
McCallum's rules based on the model outcomes (945). In stochastic volatility
model, can find an economy in which the McCallum rule and Taylor rule implement
the same monetary policy with reasonable parameters (946). The stochastic
price-of-risk model also does well, but parameters for McCallum rule are
"incredible" (946). Leave this investigation to future research (!!!) (947).

Lettau and Uhlig, 2000. Can Habit Formation Be Reconciled with Business Cycle
Facts?

Addresses habit formation as realistic solution to asset pricing in macro
models (79). With labor input and habit formation in consumption, agents
respond to shocks by adjusting labor dramatically to smooth consumption (80).
Adding labor smoothing results in smooth countercyclical labor but still smooth
consumption (81). Habit in utility function follows Campbell and Cochrane
(1995) (82). Made clear that the habit is very small percentage of consumption
in the model (84). With a varying elasticity of inter-temporal substitution
(EIS), there is little change in the macro-economic variables, so they fix it
at steady state value for analysis (84). Habits in consumption and leisure
(85). In models with and without consumption habit formation but without
leisure habit, labor input adjusts much less to tech shock when there is
consumption habit (88). Higher risk aversion needed to fit model if no habit
formation (89). Correlations of real variables not affected much by the habit
(90). Low volatility is still a problem with habit formation (90). Making
changes to the values of the parameters doesn't help with increasing
consumption volatility in the habit case without lessening model fit (92).
Consumption increases slightly more to tech shock in model with leisure habit
(94). Making consumption and leisure multiplicative in utility lessens the
models ability to model asset price variability, because of negative
correlation between them (97).

Campbell and Shiller, 1991. Yield spreads and interest rate movements: a bird's
eye view.

Broad facts are generated from yield data: when term spread is large, long-term
yields tendd to fall over the life of the short-term bond (counter to
expectations theory) and short-term yields tend to rise over the life of the
longer-term bond (in line with expecatations theory) (496). Under expectations
hypothesis, longer-term rate is the average of all future short-term rates plus
a constant (496). Lay out expectation hypothesis (497). Regression tests have
overlapping errors (498). Regressions are supposed to investigate whether,
using an VAR(p) information set, the expected term spread on average equals the
actual (499-500). The expectations hypothesis fails resoundingly, where the
slope of the term structure between any two maturities gives the wrong
direction of forecast ofr the change in yield of the longer-term bond over the
life of the shorter-term bond (501). When term spread is used to forecast
changes in short-term rate over life of long-term, the sign is of the correct
size, except in comparisons of small maturities (505). Correlation using VAR to
forecast theoretical spread and actual spread is often very high (505). But,
spread is still too variable to accord with expecdtations model (505). There is
a discrepancy, especially in longer-bond yield differences, between regressing
expectations based future changes in slope of YC on actual slope and using VAR
to generate expected slope and dividing that by standard deviations (505). This
error may be a results of different sample sizes because of truncation in first
regression or VAR p is too small (505). Run MC experiment where they feed
normal errors in VAR system and replace actual term spread with expecatations
theory implied term spread and then re-estimate OLS, and see if regression
coefficient moves further away from one in same direction or just moves further
away from one in either direction (510). Shows that VAR procedures give weak
evidence that actual and theoretical spread are imperfectly correlated and
stronger evidence that actual spread has higher variability than the
theoretical spread (510). Use IV to test results if there is an error term in
expecdtations hypothesis prediction of actual term spread (510). IV
coefficients are sually more negative (510). Suggest over-reaction model of the
term spread (512). Also an underreaction of model of long-rates to short-rates
of Campbell and Shiller (1984) (513).

Rudebusch and Swanson, 2007. "Examining the Bond Premium Puzzle with a DSGE
Model".

Additional notes. Bonds are modeled as norminal consoles with a geometric rate
of decay and then use Macaulay duration to get price of appropriate bond (9).
Bond risk premiums are derived from the inflation risk associated with holding
the nominal bonds. If high inflation is correlated with low output (tech
shock), then inflation risk premium will be higher (9). Second measure of term
premium is similar to Hoerdahl, Tristani, and Vestin (2007) who focus on
holding period return as a better measure of the term premium (11). They set
the utility curvature higher than typical macro estimates but in line with
labor lit to give higher term premium, thus more likely to match data (15).
Baseline model results in term premium much smaller than in the data (17-18).
Reference Hoedahl, Tristani, and Vestin (2007) and Ravenna and Seppaelae (2006)
increasing the size of shocks to generate tp closer to the data (18).
Increasing shock sizes to those in HTV, tp is higher and standard deviation is
higher, closer to empirical estimates, but other variables suffer (18). Perform
"best fit" estimation by estimating over a grid those parameters that seem to
matter most to term premium (19-20). Fit is still not good for tp (20). Try
replacing utility function with Campbell and Cochrane (1999) preferences rather
than original one period back habit (21-22). Still unable to match level and
volatility of tp, even though curvature of utility function is much higher in
C-C (23). Note how difference between endowment economy and production economy
is important to explaining why Wachter (2006) gets good result for C-C utility
in maching tp, but RS do not (23). Try adding labor market frictions to prevent
labor from adjusting quickly to shocks, making assets less risky (24). Tp level
and volatility match better with C-C utility and labor market frictions, but
standard deviation of of real wages goes through the roof, way beyond empirical
estimates (26). Try adding real wage rigidities, but this has no effect on tp
(26). Nominal wage staggering also does not help (28).

Rudebusch and Swanson, 2012. "The Bond-Premium in a DSGE Model with Long-Run
Real and Nominal Risks".

Discuss how non-structural consumption-inflation models can fit tp, it is
important to invoke a more structural framework to understand what is really
driving the term premium (106). Introduce two main changes to standard DSGE
model to better model tp: 1) Epstein-zin preferences and 2) long-run real and
nominal risk. Relate this to how central bank's long-run inflation objective
may vary over time (107). C: Ravenna and Seppaelae (2006) and Piazzeisi and
Schneider (2006) make distinction between real and nominal risk also, and find
very different results for each. C: Relationship between how "inflation
objective" in Wu (2005) and Doh (2007) "level" of yield curve, relates to this
paper. Full specification of Epstein and Zin preferences (109).
State-contingent security (113). Calvo pricing (114). Taylor rule (116). Relate
inflation, consumption correlation to term premium (118). DO NOT use
generalized console that is used in 2008 paper (119). use very simple
alternative measures of the term premium (119-120). Use AIM perturbation
methods to compute third-order approximation again as in 2008 paper (120).
Solve in two steps: 1) solve for macro variables including discount factor to
third order and then 2) use stochastic discount factor from first step to solve
for the bond prices to third order for each mautiry ranging from 1 to 40
quarters (120). Baseline parameters, with CRRA set to 75 (121-122)! High
relative risk aversion required to match asset prices (123). Because agents
have perfect knowledge of the model equations, risk aversion needs to be set
higher to reflect real agents lack of knowledge about the actual model
governing the economy (123). Building on model from 2008, but changing utility
to Epstein-Zin preferences, the model's fit of macro data is just as good, but
the tp is a lot higher (125). High risk-aversion of 110(!) is required for
model to fit data in "best-fit" approximation (127). In the model, IRF show
that a tech shock results in an increase in consumption but a decrease in
inflation, so long-term bond is risky, so term premium goes up (128). The
tech-shock is by far the most important of the three shocks for changes in the
term premium (129). The yield curve slopes upward (129). Substantial endogenous
heteroskedasticity is produced by E-Z preferences, leading to time-varying term
premia (130). Third order discount factor is more volatile and more
heteroskedsatic than the linearized stochastic discount factor (130). Show that
it is the third-order appoximation of the discount factor more than any other
variable by using first-order for all of the others (131). Large E-Z
coefficient is what drives the heteroskedasticity (132). Adding long-run
productivity risk does not help to get tp wihtout high risk-aversion (133).
Introduce long-term inflation risk as another explanation (134). Term premium
is in fact always higher when long-run inflation risk is introduced (135). Best
fit with long-run inflation risk still has really high risk-aversion (136).
Note that term premium lessens when central bank no longer responds to output
and responds more and more strongly to inflation, flattening the yield curve
(137).

Diebold, Rudebusch, and Aruoba, 2006. "The macroeconomy and the yield curve:
a dynamic latent factor approach."

Attempts to bridge the gap between macro models of term structure and financial
models (related to Cochrane (2005) observation) (310). Latent factor model of
term structure (310). Ha both macro-to-yield and yield-to-macro directional
causality (310). First introduce 3 factor model with no macro variables of
yield curves, summarized using Nelson and Siegel (1987) curve (312). Kalman
filter can be used to estimate the Nelson-Siegel form (313). Estimate non-macro
model, 36 free parameters (315). Fits yield curve remarkbly well without macro
variables (317). Link first factor to YC level, then to inflation, assigned by
the factor equation (319). Link second factor to slope and then to capacity
utilization, related to cyclical fluctuations (319). Include manufacturing
capacity utilization, federal funds rate, and price inflation as three
variables (320). Macro-yield system fits just as well (321). Close connection
between slope factor and federal funds rate, increase in "slope" leads to
increase in federal funds rate (324). Increase in "level" leads to increase in
utilization, federal funds rate, and inflation. So, "level" is probably related
to long-run inflation expectations (324). Change in macro variables leads to
change in "slope" and "level" (324). Increase in federal funds rate leads to
increase in "level", calling into question central bank credibility (325).
Variance decomposition shows that "slope" is actually macro variables (325).
Variance decomposition suggests that impact of yield curve on macro vars is
less important than the effect of macro variables on the yield curve (326).
But, bidirectional effects are both significant (328). There are large
deviations from expectations hypothesis, but they move together most of the
time, examined by iterating forward the macro model (332-333). Illiquidity at
longer maturities (333).

Rudebusch and Wu, 2004. "A Macro-Finance Model of the Term Structure, Monetary
Policy, and the Economy."

Use two unobserved latent factors rather than 3 in macro-finance and
yields-only affine models of the term structure (2). Two seems fine for
short-sample 1988-2000 (2). Related two factors to "level" and "slope" (6).
Show suggestive evidence that "level" corresponds to inflation expectations and
connect this monetary policy inflation target (8). C: could relate this to
Diebold, Rudebusch, and Aruoba, 2006, who suggest that monetary policy may not
be "credible". Related "slope" factor to cyclical factor that enters Taylor
rule in current inflation and output gap factors (10). Integrate structural
relationships into estimation of macro-finance model with unobserved latent
factors (15). Risk premium components of long rates does not effect output (!!)
(15). "Level" and "slope" and macro-finance factors are highly correlated, but
have different IRFs (16-17). Important distinction is that monetary policy
intertia is not shown to hold, but instead monetary policy responds to
persistent, unknown shocks (17). "Level" shock has much more effect on longer
maturities and "slope" shock opposite (18-19). C: Avenue for research may be
figuring out what the unknown persistent factors are that enter monetary policy
decision function (23).

Bauer and Rudebusch, 2011. "The Signaling Channel for Federal Reseve Bond
Purchases".

Already been shown that large scale asset purchases (LSAPs) had significant
impact on longer-term yields (1). LSAP could have led to decrease in tp
(portfolio balance channel) or decrease in average level of short-term
risk-free i-rate over the maturity of the bond (signaling channel) (1). C: How
does the separation of the different components of the term premium relate to
Piazzesi and Schneider (2006) separation of the term premium into real and
nominal risk (5). Portfolio balance channel focuses on quantities, thus going
against mainstream frictionless finance theory (6). Importance of signalling
window period and secrecy of information before release (7). Portfolio balance
effect and signalling effect are not mutually exclusive even if the other is
ruled out (8). Downward bias in estimate of signalling effet (9). Through
non-model event analysis of changes in short-term rates and money-market
futures, LSAP events all have significant effect on future interest rate
expectations (11). OIS rates respond even more strongly than yields (12).
Largest root in AR models for persistent time series is generally
under-estimated, so mean reversion is over-estimated, so risk-neutral rates are
too stable and too much variation is attributed to the term premium (13). Use
Bayesian method of Bauer (2011) to generate risk pricing restrictions (15).
Adjusted estimates imply a much larger role played by the expectations
component rather than the term premium component (17). All the methods have
a lot of uncertainty regarding the contribution of each (17). Median-unbaised
method results in much larger role of the expectations component for
longer-maturity bond yields than OLS (18). In the end they challenge GRRS's
(Gagnon, et al.) conclusion that the Fed's LSAP program has mostly worked
through a porfolio balance channel (21).

Gagnon, Raskin, Remache, and Sack, 2011. "Large-Scale Asset Purchases by the
Federal Reserve: Did They Work?"

Find that the LSAPs lowered rates and did this mostly through lowering the term
premium rather than lowering expectations of future short term rates (42).
Portfolio balance effect (42). Good explanation of portfolio balance risk (42).
Liquidity channel played important role atthe beginning stages, but portfolio
balance effect was probably primary role throughout all events (43). Purchases
were not intended to distort the yield curve (45). Rates tend to move as
expected in event study analysis (50). Ten-year treasury rate responds much
more strongly than 2-year treasury rate, so they make the case that the term
premium was the path of rate reduction (50). Results are sensitive to expanding
response window to 2-days and expanding relevant windows (50-51). Regression
results support results (55-56).

D'Amico and King, 2011. "Flow and Stock Effects of Large-Scale Treasury
Purchases."

LSAP program rested in part on assumption that prices were influenced by asset
quantities available to the public (2). Use CUSIP level data (2). Also able to
distinguish between the flow and stock effects of LSAP interventions (3). LSAP
purchases seemed to target "underpriced" securities (6). Affine function
derived from Brownian motion (7). Offer preferred habitat as driver of term
premium in LSAP intervention, where investors have demand for assets of
specific maturity (10). Define three different substitute buckets for
securities (12). Use 2SLS to correct for specific targeting of assets that had
low yields (14). Stock effects are statistically significant (15). Present
counter-factual yield curve (17). Flow effects were significant but short-lived
for notes but significant and longer-lived for bonds (21). Importance of
preferred habitat and portfolio-balance effect for statistically signficant
coefficients and success of LSAP program (23).

Kozicki, Santor, and Suchanek, prelim 2012. "The Impact of Large Scale Asset
Purchases on Commodity Prices".

Conclude that LSAP's do not appear to have a measurable impact on overall
commodity prices, positive spill-over effects into commodity exporter
currencies and stock markets, and commodity prices have becomes more sensitive
to macroeconomic shocks during LSAP periods (3). Five transmission channels
from monetary policy to commodity prices, including portfolio re-allocation,
inventory demand, exchange rate depreciation, supply restrictions, and economic
growth (4). Event study approach complicated by contemporaneous measures and
effects, ongoing nature of the crisis, (country) selection bias, policy lags,
and fiscal policy (amplified through abnormal monetary policy conditions) (6).
Use constant mean return model to investigate abnormal returns on event
announcement dates (6-7). Use futures prices rather than spot prices because of
1) London time-lag trading of commodity spot prices and 2) spot prices are
correlated with futures price on following day (7). Use daily data and log of
change in commodity prices (return) to measure announcement effects (8). LSAP
round 1 had no measurable effect on commodity prices, with only 13 out 80
commodities and events with effect significantly different from zero (10).
Similar conclusion for LSAP round 2 and round 3 (11). Also examine movement of
exchange rates (12). Effects are mostly as expected and significant (13).
Because of expectations of relaxes monetary policy, macroeconomic surprises
will have a potentially larger impact on commodity prices (13). Oil prices seem
to respond more drastically during LSAP period (14).

Kim and Orphanides, 2005. "Term Structure Estimation with Survey Data on
Interest Rate Forecasts."

Find that adding in survey forecasts of short-run interest rate help produce
stable and sensible results for 3-factor Gaussian model, alleviating common
problems of estimating conventional model (2). Small sample issues in
estimating term structure (3). Perceptions of the long-run neutral ff rate have
changed significantly over time (4). Sample used (going back to 1990 vs. 1965)
leads to very different affine model estimates of the expected path of the
short-rate, with 1990s data contributing to much more stable path estimate vs.
1965 (9). In estimation, set some of the parameters with large standard errors
to zero (11). The risk is real that different researchers could arrive at
different model specifications with minor differences in data, differences in
initial parameter guesses, and different choices in reducing dimensionality
(11). Advocate using survey data to supplant restricted sample to more robustly
estimate model parameters (13). Using survey estimates from Blue-Chip survey,
expectations hypothesis results in larger forecasting errors relative to survey
results than random walk forecast (15). Add two survey measures to observation
vector (17). Adding survey estimates increases robustness of estimates and also
decreases necessary size of sample (21). There are a lot of similarities
between the model estimated with the 1990 data with survey estimates and the
model estimated without survey information using data going back to 1965 (23).
Deviations from the Expectations Hypothesis are reinforced by simulations in
the model (29-30). Expectations implied by survey are in line with model but
not in line expectations hypothesis (31). Generate Monte Carlo simulations of
survey values to test model (33). Their conclusion that survey estimates
improve the ability of the model to match empirical estimates of expectations
holds to these tests (34-36). C: Maybe cool to use real-time macro variables
instead of survey rate expectations to test ability of model to match moments
of data (36).

Kim and Wright, 2005. "An arbitrage-free three-factor term structure model and
the recent behavior of long-term yields and distant-horizon forward rates".

Attribute increase in demand for longer-term securities that accompanied
federal funds rate increases leading to flattening of yield curve to 1) better
anchored inflation expectations and a reduction of volatility of real activity,
2) increased international interest in long-term safe securities 3) pension
reform leading to higher demand for duration 4) lower business capital spending
relative to profits 5) aging demographic seeking safer yields 6) low supply of
corporate longer-term fixed income securities (2-5). 3-Factor arbitrage free
term structure model (5). C: Use of the Kalman filter does not require the
assumption that some of the yields are matched without error (10-11). Estimated
forward term premium has been falling since 1990 (12). Correlation between
their term premium estimate and other empirical estimates (13). Introduce
specification that connects inflation to the factors (15-16). Using the model,
find that both the real term premium and the nominal term premium have gotten
much lower (17).

Ang and Piazzesi, 2003. "A no-arbitrage vector autoregression of term structure
dynamics with macroeconomic and latent variables".

Use a combination of three unobserved latent factors and two "macro" variables
that are based on principal components of a group of inflation variables and
real activity variables (751).

Orphanides and Wei, 2010. "Evolving Macroeconomic perceptions and the Term
Structure of Interest Rates".

Use multiple models VAR-based affine models of the term structure to
investigate role of moving perceptions of macro vars and their influence on the
term structure. Make the case that a fixed coefficient system is the reason
that simple regressions of lagged term structure variables are unable to fit
output and inflation well (4). Using expected values increases the explanative
power of the term structure regression significantly (4). VAR model and term
structure model (6). Estimate the VAR mean and other parameters in two separate
steps (6). Examine both models with all observed factors and same observed
factors with one unobserved latent factor, but latent factor can only influence
yields through the term premium component, not expectations of future yields
(8). Test several different models, including only measuring the drift term
using the rolling sample (rather than both drift, parameter, and volatility
estimates), and one with latent factors, a base-line model, the model mentioned
above, and a model supplemented with survey data (9). Two-step estimation
procedure (9). While VAR parameter estimates are similar between baseline model
and suggested model, the prices of risk are generally negative in baseline
model (strange) but positive in suggested model (11). Model short-horizon
results much better results baseline model, but long-horizon better in
suggested model, while survey-adjusted suggested model further aligns model at
all horizons and sample periods (12). The baseline model (FC) also exhibits
mean-reversion that is too quick to predict longer-maturity yields, while
suggested model (TVC) and survey-adjusted suggested model (TVC-S) do not
exhibit this mean reversion (13). Out of sample forecasting (14). Differential
responses to real growth and inflation shocks depending on period result in
differential estimates of roles of EH and term premium components (15).
Analysis of PVC model show that time variation in both drift and
paramters/volatility is important to fitting data (17-18). Single latent factor
improves the fit of the TVC model (TVC-L). Term premium shows more high
frequency variation in TVC-L model (18). The latent factor absorbs much more of
the variation in the FC model compared to the TVC model (-L).

Duffie and Kan, 1996. "A yield-factor model of interest rates".

Full derivation of assumptions needed for unique solution to affine model of
term structure (383-386). Ricatti equation (385). Gauss-Markov process (387).
Need sufficient positive drift in order for weights on shock process to never
be zerio (388). This leads to theorem where there is a unique (strong) solution
X in D to the stochastic differential equation governing the process that
governs the yields (388). Definitions of different types of term structure
models (388-389). "In practice, however, we have encountered no problem in
fixing the coefficients in \sigma and then adjusting the drift coefficients so
as to obtain consistency, at least in two-factor implementations" (389).
Equivalent martingale measure is also known as risk-neutral measure (392, from
wiki). Solution method (394). Use a combination of Newton-Raphsoin and the ADI
alogrithm to attempt to solve the system (395). Jump-diffusion state process
(397).

Bauer, Rudebusch, and Wu, 2012. "Correcting Estimation Bias in Dynamic Term
Structure Models".

References many local optima found in ML estimated solutions to dynamic term
structure models (DTSM) (454). Use Joslin, Singleton, and Zhu (2011) as
a reference model (455). They are essentially trying to overcome the small
sample bias found in estimation of DTSM that results in underestimation of the
persistence of the data generating process (455). Define affine model setup and
general solution approach (456).

ABM papers

Goldstein, Jon. "An Agent-Based Model of the Interaction between the Housing
and RMBS Markets".

Multiple hypothesis for main problem behind crisis: originate-to-distribute
hypothesis, subprime mortgage terms hypothesis, and a hypothesis based on lack
of regulation of the banking sector (1). Agents in the model are households,
investors, a central bank, and financial institutions. Model also contains
other objects which are houses, loans, RMBS, and RMBS shares (4). Model logic
for households (5). Loan approval process (7). RMBS have two tranches: senior
and junior (7). Investors look back to determine average rate of return on
RMBS, influencing decision to purchase RMBS for their portfolio (8). In model,
housing prices do spike with general downward movement in federal funds rate
(10). RMBS shares have higher rates of return during housing price
appreciation, but become negative after bubble bursts (12). Remove RMBS market
and find that market loses liquidity, household leverage is lower, and housing
pricing bubble increase is much less (12-13). In the model, the easy access to
liquid assets through securitization is the primary driver of the large housing
price bubble, not a decrease in lending standards (14). Suggestions for
extensions, including more accurate modeling of lending standards  (14).

Thurner, Stefan. "Systemic financial risk: agent based models to understand the
leverage cycle on national scales and its consequences."

Measurements of leverage (12-13). Dangers of leverage especially during bubbles
(13-14). Crowd behavior and price movements in financial markets (14). Use ABM
to model movements in shares of value vs. trend investors (15). Hedging
collateral and hedging credit (17). Leverage cycle occuring from 1999 to 2006
(18). Three ways for governments to de-leverage 1) default, 2) inflate their
debt away, or 3) decrease spending and increase production and efficiency (19).
Difficult to model systemic risk resulting agglomerated agent decisions in
models dependent only on past behavior (21). Basle I and II both ignore
systemic effects such as synchronization and feedback (22). Model assumes
a collection of agents: investors in financial assets, banks, investors to
investment companies and regulators (23). Three types of investors: informed
investors, poorly uninformed investors, and investors in investment companies
(23). Informed investors are hedge funds, mutual funds, or investment banks
that base their investment decisions on research (23). Second type of
investors, poorly- or uninformed investors place basically random orders
(demands) but trends towards the 'true price' of the asset (24). Third kind of
investors invest in investment firms such as mutual funds or hedge funds (24).
Banks offer credit to investors to leverage speculative investments (25).
Regulators are modelled as a framework which governs maximum leverage amount
(25). The hedge funds (first type of investor) in the model are long only (27).
Funds that default exit the scenario, but are replaced by a new fund a certain
number of time periods later (32). Values of parameters, fixed and varying
(33-34). Simulation results, showing that up to leverage threshold, more
aggressive funds perform better, but not true if leverage threshold is
increased (35). As shown by example fund, market impact begins to become
a factor when fund become sufficiently large (36). Model produces clustered
volatility in prices (41). An increase in the maximum leverage, \lambda^{MAX},
increase autocorrelation of fluctuations (41). In example, a crash is triggered
by a trivial seemingly irrelevant event (44). Regulation helps to increase
returns (45-46). Math for how increased leverage increases volatility (48).
Examine lender monitoring volitility of collateral (48). Active managing of
leverage as a function of collateral volatility leads to fewer defaults and
smaller total losses of system (52). The defaults actually increase with the
active managing when \lambda^{MAX} is high (52). Implement regulatory capital
requirements (52). For unaggressive funds, regulation lowers default rates, but
for aggressive funds, regulation increases default rates because of aggressive
funds suffering more severely from loan re-calls (53). High leverage in general
leads to more volatility in the market (55). Future research questions (56).
Linking economic outcomes with social unrest (57). Full information of all
market portfolios and lender-lendee decisions must be made public to break up
synchonization of events (59). Central banks could serve as the role of
communicating this information to all parties (60).

Leijonhufvud, 2009. "Out of the corridor: Keynes and the crisis."

Keynes presupposition of the events leading up to a crisis were quite different
from the current crisis. Keynes saw a decreasing return to investment with high
interests leading to decreasing returns. Instead, in the current crisis,
interest rates were too low for too long, resulting in inflation of asset
prices (742). Minksy believed that speculative booms were ever-present and
there wasn't the tie to real activity that Keynes believed (742). Hedge,
speculative, and Ponzi finance are all central to Minsky's systemic fragility
(743). Keynes did speculate in the Treatise on Money that negative forecasts of
future returns could lead to a decrease in the share of money held by the
non-bank sector, because banks choose not to relend all funds (743). In this
theory, deleveraging is part of a business downtown, not the driver of economic
conteraction as in the 2008 crisis (744). Self-reinforcing dynamics of asset
price drops and market 'freeze' (744). Because of bad balance sheets, Japanese
Keynesian stimulus policies were inneffective at increasing growth rates (746).
In Sweden and Norway in 1990s and US post WWII showed the state of balance
sheets were very important to returning to private sector growth (746). Tenets
of the Great Moderation were inflation targetting and central bank independence
(748). Old Neoclassical Synthesis vs New Neoclassical Synthesis (750).
Effective polciies to combat a severe recession have to be conducted by solvent
governments, where they are willing to pay (and tax) to correct bank balance
sheets (752). Overall degree of connectivity between agents is very important
to the dynamics of the system (754).

Buttle, 2004. "Credit networks and agent games."

Model of default Default dependence through business networks (73).
Asymmetrical efault dependence (74). Negative and positive default dependence
both possible (74). Successful model should also have default contagion and
default clustering (75). Thurner, Hanel, and Pilchler paper of banks trading
(76). Newman model of evolution (76). Agents need to be able to adapt to
defaults (78). Each iteration involves 1) trading with neighbors then 2)
default criteria is checked and finally 3) new potential trading partners are
assessed (79). Technology vector is 0, -1, or +1 to determine if producer,
consumer, or neither of a technology (80). Two neighbors have to select have to
select each other for new connection (82). Score is increased or decreased
according to pairing (83). Agents will only choose pairing that are on the
whole positive (85). Agents default when score below some level which could go
up every period (85). There is what seems to look like constant growth rates of
scores over time (86). In more complicated version of model, there are limits
to capacity both in buying and selling (88). Technologies can now take any
integer value (88). In this more copmlicated version, the default threshold is
instead calcuated as a function of past growth so strong past growth decreases
the likelihood of default; this is called Score Growth Default (SGD) (93). Also
add cost of existing to the model, which is used as a control parameter for any
agent's growth (94). Also introduce constant active agent model (CAAM) where
the number of active agents is held constant (96). New agents are generated
immediately after an old defaults (97). Two different default mechanisms
generate different results, where the same two firms will be high performing or
default depending on which default rule is used (99-101). Depending on
characteristics of new agents that replace defaulting agents, the effects on
pre-existing agents can be severe. If agents are identical to previos defaulted
agents, eventually no growth results (103). Beneficial and contagious default
both possible (104-105). Power law rule for survival over time (107).
Clustering coefficient is not that much different that random clustering (113).
Clustering is unlikely because of triple pairing (115). There needs to be
a combination of copying the best agents and altering the strategy to increase
the average lifetime of each agent (117). With SGD and CTD, defaults are not
occuring purely at random (119). With CTD default mechanism, time between
defaults increases with time, but with SGD default mechanism there are peaks at
intervals of 50 (120). The Hurst exponents match well with reality (123-124).
Look at dependence matrix (126).

Model of Feedback Effects of dynamic hedging Minority game is where agents make
choices between two states and those who choose the state in the minority are
rewarded (138). Easy to see how minority game of buying and selling can be
extended to financial markets (140-141). Brownian motion (142). Delta hedging
(143). Delta hedging is basically a bet that volatility will go up. Agents in
the model back a binary decision based on the history of decisions chosen the
minority at each iteration (145). Strategies are randomly allocated but
correspond to a given history (146). Generate price movements from sum of
choices to but (+1) or sell (-1), modified by an exponential to prevent the
price from going negative (146-147). There is exploitable information if H,
a measure of the mean of the A (the average overall change in price in
a period), is non-zero. It is zero for the entire time period but can be
non-zero for certain strecthes (148-149). Small volatility in outcomes (the sum
of the buys and sells close to zero) means good coordination (149). With larger
m, the chance of any one agent having the perfect strategy is low, so the
volatility approaches the same value as if the agents were randomly choosing
a state based on the flip of a coin (151). In simple game, game will fluctuate
between two strategies as being the best strategies (154). Attempt to expand
model to reflect stylized facts of fat-tailed return distributions and
volatility clutsering (158). Grand Canonical Minority Game (GCMG) introduced
where the number of agents at each iteration is not fixed (159). Use reward
which depends on previous value, the gain, and the number of agents making the
same choice (159). Only some agents speculate depending if their return is
above some threshold (159). Add in producers as agents that have one strategy,
providing information to speculators (160). There is a less obvious pattern to
the price changes relative to the vanilla game (163). Introduce delta hedging
into game (168). Presence of option hedger increase the volatility of the
underlying asset (174).

Markose, et al, 2010 (WP). "Too interconnected to fail: financial contagion and
systemic risk in network model of CDS and other credit enhancement obligations
of US banks".

CDS spreads of major banks (6-7). Seeking a structural model based on default
causallity of chain reactions governed by the network connections of the
financial entities (9). Conflation of representative agent with a sector or
a system as a whole has dogged neoclassical economics rendering it useless for
analysis of stability of systems that arise form interactions between
a multiplicity of heterogeneous agents (11). Haldane (2009) adds import network
topology framework to spread of financial contagion (13). Correlations of CDS
premia across different asset classes of firms such as non-financial,
financial, and also sovereign debt give indication of the extent to which
economic contagion has spread (14). Two arguments given for existence of CDS:
protection against default risk and support for raising capital and for
economizing on capital (16). The periodic payments of premia are based on the
CDS spread and quoted as a percentage of the gross national value for the CDS
at the start of the contract (17). Buyer of a CDS doesn't have to own the
underlying security or have any credit exposure to the reference entity (17).
Some CDS dealers will only post mark-to-market changes in the collateral and
don't post initial collateral (18). If each entity sells to the next entity in
a circle, then the default of one of the entities can cause a default of all of
the entities (19). In order for there to be a net benefit to some of the CDS
participants, there has to be some asymmetry of deals (19). Smaller net
notional amounts in a chain results in a reduction of the aggregate capacity of
the CDS market to hedge the underlying (20). In the event of a default, there
a few options: 1) the agreement can be 'torn-up' or terminated, 2) novation,
where the CDS obligations are assigned to a new counterparty, 3) large market
shares will have to restructure (20-21). Two outcomes of regulatory capital
requirement: 1) high percentage of residential mortgages were allowed to be
securitized in such large numbers because of underpriced RMBS coupons and 2)
balance sheet asset quality deterioration as better quality assets could more
easily be securitized (21). Ratings replaced reserves (22). Loans can be taken
to purchase CDOs (25). Even though net position for CDS may be small for many
of the involved banks in US, the large gross positions can have severe
consequences during a downturn, especially when counterparities begin to
default on their obligations (29). Small world networks have properties: 1)
dense local clusters but globally have properties of a random network 2) the
average shortest shortest path between any two randomy chosen agents if found
to be "small" and bounded by the logarithm of the total number of nodes and 3)
market-share and payoffs are characterized by a highly skewed fat tailed or
power law distribution (31). Highly connected CDS nodes have potential to be
highly distruptive (32). Agents are banks, other intermediaries, and their
customers. Connective links/edges represent flows of liquidity/obligations
(33). Rows of adjacency matrix represents CDS cover entity is entitled to.
Columns represent CDS obligations to pay (34). May-Wigner stabilty condition
implied that greater complexity increases the instability of the network (36).
The emprically constructed CDS network using actual bilateral CDS buying and
selling is May-Wigner unstable (39-40).






Duffee and Stanton, 2004. "Estimation of Dynamic Term Structure Models."

Dai and Singelton, 2000. "Specification analysis of affine term structure
models."

C: comment

Next:


Bauer, Rudebusch and Wu. "Unbiased estimation of dynamic term structure model".

Epstein and Zin, 1989. "Substitution, risk aversion, and the temporal behavior
of consumption and asset returns: a theoretical framework"

Focus is on 1) dealing with models that do not fit the data and 2) emphasizing
how consumption uncertainty is resolved over time (938-940).


Barillas, Hansen, and Sargent, 2009. "Doubts or variability?"

Should come back to this when I want to more about model uncertainty.
